[docs] Documentation for POCA and cooperative behaviors (#5056)
Unity-Technologies/ml-agents: docs/Learning-Environment-Design-Agents.md

the order of the entities, so there is no need to properly "order" the
entities before feeding them into the `BufferSensor`.

> The `BufferSensorComponent` Editor inspector have two arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `BufferSensorComponent` Editor inspector has two arguments:
```

Cooperative behavior in ML-Agents can be enabled by instantiating a `SimpleMultiAgentGroup`,
typically in an environment controller or similar script, and adding agents to it
using the `RegisterAgent(Agent agent)` method. Using `MultiAgentGroup` enables the
agents within a group to learn how to work together to achieve a common goal (i.e.,
maximize a group-given reward), even if one or more of the group members are removed
before the episode ends. You can then use this group to add/set rewards, end or interrupt episodes
at a group level using the `AddGroupReward()`, `SetGroupReward()`, `EndGroupEpisode()`, and
`GroupEpisodeInterrupted()` methods. For example:

```csharp
// Create a Multi Agent Group in Start() or Initialize()
m_AgentGroup = new SimpleMultiAgentGroup();

// Register agents in group at the beginning of an episode
for (var agent in AgentList)
{
  m_AgentGroup.RegisterAgent(agent);
}

// if the team scores a goal
m_AgentGroup.AddGroupReward(score);

// If the goal is reached and the episode is over
m_AgentGroup.EndGroupEpisode();
ResetScene();

// If time ran out and we need to interrupt the episode
m_AgentGroup.GroupEpisodeInterrupted();
ResetScene();
```

> Multi Agent Groups are best used with the COMA2 trainer, which will train a "coach" for each

Reviewer: "coach" is not as accurate as we could be. We could alternatively just say, "with the x trainer, which is an algorithm designed explicitly to train multi agent environments."

Author: Changed it to "which is explicitly designed to train cooperative environments" to differentiate from the competitive multi-agent. "Coach" was intended to be intuitive to a non-expert, but not really needed tbh

Group. This can be enabled by using the `coma` trainer - see the
[training configurations](Training-Configuration-File.md) doc for more information on
configuring COMA2. When using COMA2, agents which are deactivated or removed from the Scene

> during the episode will still "receive" group rewards that are seen later.

Reviewer: "receive" is cryptic. Maybe, "X is designed so that even agents which are deactivated within an episode still learn to contribute to the groups long term success, even if they are not active in the scene to experience it."

working together should be added to the same Group, while Agents playing against each other
should be given different Team Ids. If in the Scene there is one playing field and two teams,
there should be two Groups, one for each team, and each team should be assigned a different
Team Id. If this playing field is duplicated many times in the Scene (e.g. for training
speedup), there should be two Groups _per playing field_, and two unique Team Ids
_for the entire Scene_.

For an example of how to set up cooperative environments, see the
[Cooperative PushBlock](Learning-Environment-Examples.md#cooperative-push-block) and
Escape Room example environments.

#### Cooperative Behaviors Notes and Best Practices
* An Agent can only be registered to one MultiAgentGroup at a time. If you want to re-assign an
Agent from one group to another, you have to unregister it from the current group first.

* Agents with different behavior names in the same group are not supported.

* Agents within groups should always set the `Max Steps` parameter the Agent script to 0, meaning
they will never reach a max step. Instead, handle Max Steps with MultiAgentGroup by ending the episode for the entire

> Group using `GroupEpisodeInterrupted()`.

Reviewer: Or EndGroupEpisode?

Reviewer 2: here I want to emphasize how to handle max step reached and for max step we should use GroupEpisodeInterrupted().

* `EndGroupEpisode` and `GroupEpisodeInterrupted` do the same job in the game, but has
slightly different effect on the training. If the episode is completed, you would want to call
`EndGroupEpisode`. But if the episode is not over but it has been running for enough steps, i.e.
reaching max step, you would call `GroupEpisodeInterrupted`.

* If an Agent finished earlier, e.g. completed tasks/be removed/be killed in the game, do not call
`EndEpisode()` on the Agent. Instead, disable the Agent and re-enable it when the next episode starts,

> or destroy the agent entirely. Once an agent is disabled, it will not receive any group or

Reviewer: I think the sentence "Once.." is confusing and should just be removed.

individual rewards anymore and effectively doesn't exist in the game.

* If an Agent is disabled in a scene, it must be re-registered to the MultiAgentGroup.

> * Group rewards are meant to reinforce agents to act in the group's best interest instead of

Reviewer: And then also maybe a note, AddReward is still exactly the same.

> * Group rewards are meant to reinforce agents to act in the group's best interest instead of

Author: Hmm, I'm not sure we want to get into the minutae of which agents within a group receive each particular type of reward. maybe we just say something like Group Rewards are given to the group, and are not equivalent to AddReward. Or just remove this whole thing, Group Reward seems pretty intuitive as it is and we might be making it more confusing.

individual ones, and are treated differently than individual agent rewards during
training. So calling AddGroupReward() is not equivalent to calling agent.AddReward() on each agent
in the group.

* You can still add incremental rewards to Agents using `Agent.AddReward()` if they are

> in a Group. These rewards will only be given to those agents and can only be received when the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a Group. These rewards will only be given to those agents and are only received when the
```

Agent is active.

* Environments which use Multi Agent Groups can be trained using PPO or SAC, but agents will

> not receive Group Rewards after deactivation/removal, nor will they behave as cooperatively.

Author: how about `* Environments which use Multi Agent Groups can be trained using PPO or SAC, but agents will not be able to learn from group rewards after deactivation/removal, nor will they behave as cooperatively.`?

trainer configurations for each of your behavior names and include the self-play
hyperparameter hierarchy in both.

### Groups for Cooperative Scenarios

Cooperative behavior in ML-Agents can be enabled by instantiating a `SimpleMultiAgentGroup`,
typically in an environment controller or similar script, and adding agents to it
using the `RegisterAgent(Agent agent)` method. Using `MultiAgentGroup` enables the
agents within a group to learn how to work together to achieve a common goal (i.e.,
maximize a group-given reward), even if one or more of the group members are removed
before the episode ends. You can then use this group to add/set rewards, end or interrupt episodes
at a group level using the `AddGroupReward()`, `SetGroupReward()`, `EndGroupEpisode()`, and
`GroupEpisodeInterrupted()` methods. For example:

```csharp
// Create a Multi Agent Group in Start() or Initialize()
m_AgentGroup = new SimpleMultiAgentGroup();

// Register agents in group at the beginning of an episode
for (var agent in AgentList)
{
  m_AgentGroup.RegisterAgent(agent);
}

// if the team scores a goal

> m_AgentGroup.AddGroupReward(score);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
m_AgentGroup.AddGroupReward(rewardForGoal);
```

// If the goal is reached and the episode is over
m_AgentGroup.EndGroupEpisode();
ResetScene();

// If time ran out and we need to interrupt the episode
m_AgentGroup.GroupEpisodeInterrupted();
ResetScene();
```

> Multi Agent Groups are best used with the MA-POCA trainer, which is explicitly designed to train

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Multi Agent Groups can only be trained with the MA-POCA trainer, which is explicitly designed to train
```

Author: Hmm, this isn't exactly true - Multi Agent Groups will run and try to train with PPO but their behaviors won't be very collaborative. I changed it to the stronger-but-not-as-hard "should be trained with".

> cooperative environments. This can be enabled by using the `coma` trainer - see the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
cooperative environments. This can be enabled by using the `poca` trainer - see the
```

[training configurations](Training-Configuration-File.md) doc for more information on
configuring MA-POCA. When using MA-POCA, agents which are deactivated or removed from the Scene
during the episode will still learn to contribute to the group's long term rewards, even
if they are not active in the scene to experience them.

**NOTE**: Groups differ from Teams (for competitive settings) in the following way - agents
working together should be added to the same Group, while Agents playing against each other
should be given different Team Ids. If in the Scene there is one playing field and two teams,
there should be two Groups, one for each team, and each team should be assigned a different
Team Id. If this playing field is duplicated many times in the Scene (e.g. for training
speedup), there should be two Groups _per playing field_, and two unique Team Ids
_for the entire Scene_. In environments with both Groups and Team Ids configured, MA-POCA and

> self-play can be used together for training.

Reviewer 3: Maybe a little image will help?

Author: Added a small diagram of the difference

> For an example of how to set up cooperative environments, see the
> [Cooperative PushBlock](Learning-Environment-Examples.md#cooperative-push-block) and
> [Dungeon Escape](Learning-Environment-Examples.md#dungeon-escape) example environments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Remove until the environments are actually merged.

Author: Removed

#### Cooperative Behaviors Notes and Best Practices
* An Agent can only be registered to one MultiAgentGroup at a time. If you want to re-assign an

> Agent from one group to another, you have to unregister it from the current group first.

Reviewer 3: There is some inconsistency in the page between agent and Agent (capitalization)

> * Agents with different behavior names in the same group are not supported.

Reviewer 3: This is the first time this is mentioned (I think). This section is a summary, so it should be called out earlier.

> * Agents within groups should always set the `Max Steps` parameter the Agent script to 0, meaning
> they will never reach a max step. Instead, handle Max Steps with MultiAgentGroup by ending the episode for the entire

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Agents within groups should always set the `Max Steps` parameter the Agent script to 0. Instead, handle Max Steps with MultiAgentGroup by ending the episode for the entire
```

Group using `GroupEpisodeInterrupted()`.

* `EndGroupEpisode` and `GroupEpisodeInterrupted` do the same job in the game, but has
slightly different effect on the training. If the episode is completed, you would want to call
`EndGroupEpisode`. But if the episode is not over but it has been running for enough steps, i.e.

> reaching max step, you would call `GroupEpisodeInterrupted`.

Reviewer 3: I think this is not specific to GroupTraining and should be called out in a more general documentation page.

Reviewer 2: I guess we never explicitly called this out since we handle all the max_step stuff for single agent so users don't need to know about this. The only place that used `Agent.EpisodeInterrupted` is in Match3 where different agents will make moves at different frequencies. 
Maybe we can add a section about manually requesting decision and manually handling max_step_reached (in separate PR)?

* If an Agent finished earlier, e.g. completed tasks/be removed/be killed in the game, do not call
`EndEpisode()` on the Agent. Instead, disable the Agent and re-enable it when the next episode starts,

> or destroy the agent entirely.

Reviewer 3: Give an explanation: 
"This is because calling EndEpisode will call OnEpisodeBegin, hence resetting the Agent immediately. This is usually not the desired behavior when training a group of Agents."
It is possible to call `EndEpisode` it just will most likely not be what the user expects.

Author: Added this explanation 👍

> * If an Agent is disabled in a scene, it must be re-registered to the MultiAgentGroup.

Reviewer 3: disabled or destroyed right ?

Reviewer 2: destroyed = gone. no way it can be re-registered right?

Reviewer 3: Then I would say, if a previously disabled agent is re-enabled it must be re-registered

* Group rewards are meant to reinforce agents to act in the group's best interest instead of
individual ones, and are treated differently than individual agent rewards during

> training. So calling AddGroupReward() is not equivalent to calling agent.AddReward() on each agent

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
training. So calling `AddGroupReward()` is not equivalent to calling `agent.AddReward()` on each agent
```

Cooperative behavior in ML-Agents can be enabled by instantiating a `SimpleMultiAgentGroup`,
typically in an environment controller or similar script, and adding agents to it

> using the `RegisterAgent(Agent agent)` method. Note that all agents added to the same `MultiAgentGroup`

Reviewer 3: I think we only have `SimpleMultiAgentGroup` and `IMultiAgentGroup`, no `MultiAgentGroup`. (To verify)

Author: Confirmed and fixed
